# proland介绍

http://proland.inrialpes.fr/

A C++/OpenGL library for the real-time realistic rendering of very large
and detailed 3D natural scenes on GPU

Proland is a C++/OpenGL library for the real-time rendering of
multi-resolution terrains (up to whole planets), the real-time
management and edition of vector data (representing for instance roads
or rivers), the rendering of atmosphere and clouds, the rendering and
animation of the oceans, and the rendering of forests. All data are
loaded or generated on the fly according to the viewpoint, and can be
combined procedurally. For instance the shape and texture of a terrain
can be modified using vector data representing roads and rivers.

## 特点

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  terrains     Terrain data can be stored on disk, procedural, or a mix of
               the two (e.g., to amplify real data with fractal details);
               Terrain data can be used for anything (elevation, normals,
               horizon maps, color texture, tree density maps, etc);
               preprocessing tools are provided to convert terrain data to
               our internal format, to precompute horizon maps for terrain
               shadows, etc. Proland comes with precomputed data for the
               whole Earth, at 500m/pixel for colors and 90m/pixel for
               elevations.
  ------------ ------------------------------------------------------------
  roads        Roads are specified with Bezier curves, and are
               automatically integrated in the terrain shape (to get flat
               and horizontal roads even on bumpy terrains) and in the
               terrain texture. The Bezier curves can be edited
               interactively; the roads are recomputed in real-time after
               each edit.

  atmosphere   The atmosphere is rendered in real time from any viewpoint
               from ground level to outer space, while taking Rayleigh and
               Mie multiple scattering into account. It correctly
               reproduces daylight and twilight sky color and aerial
               perspective for all view and light directions.

  oceans       The ocean is rendered, animated and illuminated in
               real-time, at all scales and for all viewing distances. Our
               ocean correctly reflects the Sun and the sky light at all
               scales, yielding very realistic results.

  edition      Any terrain data can be edited on the fly, while navigating
               in the 3D scene: the terrain shape, its texture, the roads,
               the tree density maps, etc.

  forests      Forests are rendered with hundreds of thousands of
               instantiated billboards, in real-time.

  modularity   Proland is made of a core library and of 7 predefined and
               independent plugins, each in its own dynamic library (DLL).
               You can easily add your own plugins to add new
               functionalities to Proland.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

For all technical questions about Proland, please
use <proland-contact@inria.fr>\
You can also check the [archives of the technical
mailing-list \[soon\]](https://sympa.inria.fr/sympa/arc/proland-info)\
\
For other requests that INRIA might be able to address, please
use <proland-licensing@inria.fr>.\
( [Reminder](http://proland.inrialpes.fr/#license): Proland is free
software under BSD 3 license, for both non-commercial and commercial use
).

## Windows系统下的Demo

下载二进制程序proland-4.0.zip，包含了预编译的DLL文件、头文件和开发者文档，以及预编译的demo应用程序和示例。可直接运行，除了Earth
scenes。

还需要下载地形数据（\~20 GB）：

wget -r -A .dat,.graph http://proland.inrialpes.fr/data/

然后编辑init.bat文件，指定proland-4.0的路径。

This data comes [Blue Marble Next
Generation](http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/BlueMarble/), [CIAT-CSI
SRTM v4](http://srtm.csi.cgiar.org/), [Global Land Cover Facility
AVHRR](http://www.glcf.umd.edu/data/landcover/) and [ArcGIS](http://aprsworld.net/gisdata/world/),
and is redistributed here in the Proland internal format with the
permission of CIAT-CSI and GLCF (no authorization is required to
redistribute the Blue Marble Data, and the world borders map from ArcGIS
has a creative commons license).

## 下载源码

svn checkout https://scm.gforge.inria.fr/anonscm/svn/proland/
