# DuMux

工作流程：Gmsh网格划分；Gnuplot和Matplotlib作图，Paraview可视化。

### 多孔介质中的多相流及输移

下面是基于Norne数据集的两相流（水和石油）的模拟。空隙场，各向异性渗透场，计算网格M的单元E，注水和提取井的位置如图4。

计算区域由corner-point grid描述(Aarnes, 2008)，使用DUNE的omp-grid
(Rasmussen,
2020)的网格接口实施。不可压缩不可穿透两相流模型控制方程和参数见文献(Schneider,
2018)的式(56-60)，表3。

非线性耦合PDE使用TPFA单元中心的有限体积格式在空间上离散，时间上是由向后欧拉格式离散。初始条件是：整个计算域都是全饱和的石油。井使用Peaceman的井模型，施加固定的bore-hole压力(Peaceman,
1978)。

M. Schneider, B. Flemisch, R. Helmig, K. Terekhov, H. Tchelepi, 2018.
Monotone nonlinear finite-volume method for challenging grids, Comput.
Geosci. 22 (2): 565-586.

J.E. Aarnes, S. Krogstad, K.-A. Lie, 2008. Multiscale mixed/mimetic
methods on corner-point grids, Comput. Geosci. 12 (3): 297-315.

A. Flo Rasmussen, T. Harald Sandve, K. Bao, A. Lauser, J. Hove, B.
Skaflestad, R. Klkorn, M. Blatt, A. Birger Rustad, O. Sareid, K.-A. Lie,
A. Thune, 2020. The open porous media flow reservoir simulator, Comput.
Math. Appl. 81: 159-185.

![](./media/image1.jpg)

孔隙度与渗透率分布（从opm-data模块提取）

![E:\\Reservoir_modelling\\DuMux\\norne_sandp_plain.jpg](./media/image2.jpeg)

2个注水井，水油两相的地下浓度时空演变过程（液相压力和饱和度的时间演变过程）

![](./media/image3.jpg)

### CO2封存 

![](./media/image4.jpg)

### Fractured rock systems

A discrete fracture model based on the box scheme

Infiltration of CO2~ through an interconnection network of fractures in
a fully water saturated medium. Simulation based on a vertex-centred
finite volume scheme (Box) with auxiliary terms in the balance equations
to account for fracture flow (Box-DFM). The scheme is suitable for
conducting fractures.

### River engineering applications

Shallow water equations (fully implicit)

The simulation covers a 11 km long section of the river Rhine and shows
flooded areas during an idealized flood event. Water flows from bottom
to top. The model has a discharge boundary condition at the inlet and a
stage-discharge-curve as boundary condition at the outlet.

The simulation is based on the shallow water equations (a
depth-averaged, two-dimensional version of the Navier-Stokes equations).
The model uses a fully implicit time discretization and a finite volume
discretization in space.

### Fluid flow around the DuMu^x^ logo

Navier-Stokes equations

The simulation shows fluid flow around the DuMu^x^ logo visualised by
streamlines. The computational grid is created with the DuMu^x^ binary
image grid reader which makes use of the Dune grid interface
implementation [dune-subgrid](https://www.dune-project.org/modules/dune-subgrid/).
The flow solver is based on Newton's method and the Navier-Stokes
equations are discretised with an implicit Euler scheme in time and a
staggered grid finite volume scheme in space.

### 小结

具有广泛应用范围的流体模拟程序，特别是地下水多孔介质模拟以及油藏模拟。

# OPM模拟器

MRST: 油藏模拟的Matlab工具箱。

石油界的权威商业软件ECLIPSE

Norne油田(挪威, 1997)，算例：github.com/OPM

OPM有挪威SINTEF和德国Stuttgart大学、Bergen大学共同开发。

OPM使用和构建现有的框架和库，如DUNE, DuMuX, Zoltan,
Boost，降低实施和维护成本，改善软件质量。MRST的目的也是如此。

OPM
Flow开发的目的有2个：（1）作为开源模型，选择替代现有的商业模型，辅助石油公司的规划、设计与管理，如碳水化合物；（2）实际应用用户实施、测试和验证新模型、新计算方法的研究平台。

OPM
Flow目标是描述油藏地质、流体特性和描述井和产油设施，提供全隐格式离散black-oil类型模型，支持工业标准的输入和输出格式。模拟器使用自动差商(AD)，避免编码错误，更容易拓展模拟器使用新方程，如CO2注入和enhanced
oil recovery (EOR)。

OPM flow的安装和运行见：opm-project.org，及其手册。

![](./media/image5.jpg)

图1 Norne reservoir显示石油饱和度和井（3.5年产油后）：Z方向放大5倍

OPM包含ReInsight后处理程序，用于所有的3D可视化。独立于OPM其他模块。

输入与输出文件格式：Eclipse

![](./media/image6.jpg)

图2 Norne油田的网格以及流体的初始分布。红色的是gas，蓝色的是oil

![](./media/image7.jpg)

图3 Norne油田的injector and producer井的验证

注射polymer提高oil recovery

![](./media/image8.jpg)

图4 计算网格和polymer的水平渗透率

### Flow模块

OPM Flow is a fully-implicit, black-oil simulator capable of running
industry-standard simulation models. The simulator is implemented using
automatic differentiation to enable rapid development of new fluid
models.

![Validation of Flow for the Norne Field. The 3D plot shows saturation
distribution visualized in ResInsight. The line plots show bottom-hole
pressures and oil-production rates as computed by Flow (blue lines) and
Eclipse 100 (red
lines).](./media/image9.png)

Validation of Flow for the Norne Field. The 3D plot shows saturation
distribution visualized in ResInsight. The line plots show bottom-hole
pressures and oil-production

**Model formulation:**

-   black-oil with dissolved gas and vaporized oil

-   rock-dependent capillary and relative-permeability curves

-   end-point scaling and hysteresis

-   oil vaporization controls (VAPPARS)

**EOR options:**

-   Todd-Longstaff type polymer model with adsorption, dead-pore space,
    > permeability reduction, and shear effects
    > ([[Flow-polymer]{.underline}](https://opm-project.org/?p=592))

-   extra component equation(s), such as a solvent model
    > ([[Flow-solvent]{.underline}](https://opm-project.org/?page_id=565))

**Description of geology:**

-   rectilinear and fully-unstructured grid

-   corner-point grids from Eclipse input, including fault and region
    > multipliers, minpv/pinch, etc

**Wells and controls:**

-   bottom-hole pressure and surface/reservoir rate

-   group controls

-   shut/stop/open individual completions

-   history-matching wells

**Input/output:**

-   general reader/parser for Eclipse input decks

-   XML-based or simple text-format input of additional parameters

-   flexible output of summary and restart files in Eclipse format

-   logging to terminal and print file

**Simulation technology:**

-   fully-implicit in time

-   two-point flux approximation in space with  upstream-mobility
    > weighting

-   flexible assembly through the use of automatic differentiation

-   block-structured linear solver with ILU0 preconditioner

-   CPR preconditioner and multigrid solver

-   adaptive step-size controls

### UPSCALING

OPM Upscaling is a collection of tools for single-phase and steady-state
upscaling of capillary pressure and relative permeability.

![C:\\Users\\Administrator\\Desktop\\OPM-Upscaling.png](./media/image10.png)

llustration of upscaling. The left figure shows averaging of porosity
within a model that contains two facies. The right figures shows
steady-state upscaling of relative permeability for a bed model.

![](./media/image11.jpeg)

**Single-phase upscaling**[:]{.mark}

-   flow-based method that uses directional flow problems

-   fixed, linear, or periodic boundary conditions

-   consistent spatial discretization (mimetic finite differences)
    > reduces grid-orientation effects

-   linear solver: algebraic multigrid

-   produces symmetric tensor (with periodic boundary conditions)

**Elastic parameters**:

-   Algebraic multigrid and overlapping Schwarz preconditioner

**Relative permeability and capillary curves:**

-   first: computes steady-state by solving two-phase, incompressible,
    > immiscible flow with capillary and gravity forces

-   then: computes effective permeability for given phase mobilities

-   generally gives full tensor relative permeability

-   same pressure solver as in single-phase upscaling (mimetic, AMG)

-   transport solver: two-point, mobility-weighted upwind scheme,
    > explicit or implicit temporal discretization

**Electrical resistivity/conductivity**:

-   Initialisation of saturations using capillary equilibrium

-   Resistivity/conductivity properties is populated using Archie's law

-   Resistivity/conductivity is homogenized using Ohm's law

**Upscaling utility** (cp-chop):

-   chops a corner-point model into coarse blocks

-   upscales individual blocks in parallel
