# 非结构网格大气模型

# 1 OMEGA模型

## 1.1 简介

In order to improve the fidelity of hazardous transport models, it is
essential that the meteorological forecast itself be improved. This is
because the modeling of atmospheric dispersion involves virtually all
scales of atmospheric motion from micro-scale turbulence to planetary
scale waves. The current operational atmospheric simulation systems are
scale specific and cannot resolve the full spectrum required for the
accurate forecast of local scale phenomena. Even with recent advances in
computational power, the current architecture and physics of today\'s
generation of atmospheric models cannot fully simulate the scale
interaction of the atmosphere. Recently, several groups have started the
development of non-hydrostatic, nested (multiply nested in some cases)
atmospheric models; however, these represent an incremental evolutionary
path in atmospheric simulation.

OMEGA is based upon an adaptive unstructured grid technique that makes
possible a continuously varying horizontal grid resolution ranging from
100 km down to 1 km and a vertical resolution from a few tens of meters
in the boundary layer to 1 km in the free atmosphere. This feature
allows one to obtain the highest possible resolution of the atmosphere
as well as the hazardous aerosol/gas concentration.

OMEGA is based on an unstructured, triangular prism (Figure 1)
computational mesh. This mesh is unstructured in the horizontal
dimension and structured in the vertical dimension (Figure 2). The
rationale for this mesh is the physical reality that the atmosphere is
highly variable horizontally, but always stratified vertically. While
completely unstructured three-dimensional meshes have been used for
other purposes, the benefit of having a structured vertical dimension is
a significant reduction in the computational requirements of the model.

![](./media/image1.emf){width="2.3194444444444446in"
height="1.4170570866141732in"}![](./media/image2.emf){width="1.5568547681539808in"
height="1.4814818460192476in"}

## 1.2 模型设计与操作

OMEGA模型综合考虑了数值方法、物理过程和操作难度之间的平衡。设计网格最大分辨率为1km，因为地形高程和水陆边界信息可以达到1km的分辨率，但土地利用、植被覆盖、土壤类型、反射率(albedo)、土壤含水率和气象观测数据都很少能达到1km分辨率的。

网格分辨率对一些物理过程的考虑也有限制，比如不能使用2阶湍流模型(雷诺切应力模型)。

非结构网格划分、气象和地表观测数据同化、用户界面(X-windows,
Motif)、后处理。

模拟时间应该是实际时间的1/10\~1/5

![](./media/image3.emf){width="4.555555555555555in"
height="3.474671916010499in"}

图1 OMEGA模型平衡了数值方法、物理过程和模型操作

# 2 NICAM模型

At Frontier Research Center for Global Change/Japan Agency for
Marine-Earth Science and Technology (FRCGC/JAMSTEC), we are taking a
unique approach to develop an icosahedral atmospheric model using the
nonhydrostatic system. The new model is called [NICAM (Nonhydrostatic
ICosahedral Atmospheric Model).]{.mark}

![](./media/image4.emf){width="5.414290244969378in"
height="5.375334645669291in"}

![](./media/image5.emf){width="5.068648293963254in"
height="2.9509951881014875in"}

![](./media/image6.emf){width="4.495002187226596in"
height="4.1654790026246715in"}

![](./media/image7.emf){width="5.768055555555556in"
height="3.2598600174978127in"}

垂向分层的变量存储位置

![](./media/image8.emf){width="4.895955818022747in"
height="2.613419728783902in"}

时间积分过程：使用*n~s~*=8个分裂步数，2阶龙格库塔格式，NICAM还可使用3阶龙格库塔格式

# 3 MPAS模式

**Joanna Szmelter, Zhao Zhang, PiotrK. Smolarkiewicz. (2015). An
unstructured-mesh atmospheric model for nonhydrostatic dynamics: towards
optimal mesh resolution. JCP**

Email address: <j.szmelter@lboro.ac.uk> (Joanna Szmelter).

**MPAS Model**

A defining feature of MPAS models is their use of **centroidal Voronoi
tessellations** (CVTs) with a C-grid staggering

![](./media/image9.emf){width="4.666666666666667in"
height="3.1354166666666665in"}

![](./media/image10.emf){width="2.03125in"
height="3.3020833333333335in"}
![](./media/image11.emf){width="2.3854166666666665in"
height="2.3541666666666665in"}

# 参考文献

Bacon D, Ahmad N, Boybeyi Z, Dunn T, Hall M, Lee C, Sarma R, Turner M
(2000) A dynamically adaptive weather and dispersion model: the
operational multiscale environment model with grid adaptivity (OMEGA).
Mon Weather Rev 128: 2044-2075.

Gopalakrishnan SG, Bacon DP, Ahmad NN, Boybeyi Z, Dunn TJ, Hall MS, Jin
Y, Lee PCS, Mays DE, Madala RV (2002) An operational multiscale
hurricane forecasting system. Mont Weather Rev 130(7):1830-1847.

Application of the multidimensional positive definite advection
transport algorithm (MPDATA) to environmental modelling on adaptive
unstructured grids

Dynamically adapting unstructured triangular grids-GFD modeling

M. Satoh, T. Matsuno, H. Tomita, H. Miura, T. Nasuno, S. Iga.
Nonhydrostatic icosahedral atmospheric model (NICAM) for global cloud
resolving simulations. Journal of Computational Physics 227 (2008)
3486--3514
