# VTK-m库

## VTK-m

VTK-m是适应新型处理器架构的科学可视化算法，支持细粒度的并发数据分析和可视化，提供抽象的数据模型驱动大规模计算，可应用于不同处理器架构的场景。

多年来，HPC可视化方法，例如ParaView, VisIT,
EnSight等，都支持分布式内存计算系统上的并行处理，是一种同步并行模式，其中算法在相互独立的局部硬件上执行大部分的计算。伴随着硬件的发展，[硬件架构出现不对称结构]{.mark}，多采用混合并行技术(MPI+OpenMP)，在不对称架构的机器上挖掘计算资源。这种方法的好处是使用已有的软件来管理消息传递的并行单元。

VTK-m框架就是发展节点间(intranode)并行化，节点间并行通常需要执行大量的线程和线程同步。VTK-m就是在新的HPC系统上（例如GPU系统），执行高度的并行化，可对1\~10个数据单元执行线程操作，这是高度细粒度的并行化。VTK-m支持OpenMP,
TBB, CUDA的线程并行。

VTK-m的前身是PISTON, Dax, EVAL。

## [传统的可视化技术存下的问题]{.mark}

-   荷载不均衡

-   动态内存分配

-   拓扑连接关系

-   SIMD执行

## 数据并行原语(primitive)的计算效率可移植性

ParaView和VisIT包含400多个过滤器，升级这些功能模块是巨大的挑战。

VTK-m使用数据并行原语，实现计算效率的可移植性。VTK-m定义一个抽象设备模型，由数据并行原语操作（如map,
scan, sort,
reduce）组成，可并行化运行于设备上。移植到新的设备时，仅需要提供该种设备的并行原语，仅需要一次性将算法改写到VTK-m的抽象设备模型即可，这大大降低了针对各种架构的实施工作量，如图1。

![](./media/image1.emf){width="5.1119006999125105in"
height="2.041551837270341in"}

(a)对每种架构都要单独实施可视化算法，这导致不可管理的软件更新

![](./media/image2.emf){width="5.210161854768154in"
height="2.0444739720034995in"}

(b)通过使用VTK-m的基于数据并行原语的抽象设备模型，可以大大降低实施软件更新到可执行层的工作量

图1

## VTK-m的数据模型

VTK-m数据模型非常灵活，适用于各种不同的数据布局，满足科学计算需要。另外，数据表征必须是[空间存储效率高、可使用不同的硬件架构（CPU与GPU）访问数据]{.mark}。如图1，VTK-m数据集由[3部分]{.mark}组成：cell
sets, coordinate systems,
fields。例如，结构化数据与非结构数据，都能统一为一种数据集，计算效率提高，适合于HPC应用。

![](./media/image3.emf){width="3.419968285214348in"
height="3.127024278215223in"}

图1 VTK-m数据模型概览

### 数据集 {#数据集 .标题3}

### 坐标系统 {#坐标系统 .标题3}

### 单元集 {#单元集 .标题3}

## VTK-m的优势

VTK-m允许有更多的精确数据表述（不同网格类型），即更多的数据部署；

有[零拷贝(zero-copy)]{.mark}功能，这对在线可视化很重要，VTK-m可就地利用模型代码产生的数据数组，节省了时间和空间。

VTK-m开发为[仅有头文件(header)]{.mark}的库，方便整合使用。

## 应用场景

### 光线追踪 {#光线追踪 .标题3}

Matthew Larsen，implemented Larsen's ray-tracing algorithm in VTK-m and
replicated many of the experimental runs in the Larsen paper.

all images are rendered with 1,080p resolution (1920 × 1080)

suggests that the integration of data models with the execution model,
algorithms, and other features of VTK-m does not add overhead

[M. Larsen et al., Ray Tracing within a Data Parallel Framework, Proc.
IEEE Pacific Visualization Symp. (PacificVis), 2015: 279--286.]{.mark}

![](./media/image4.emf){width="2.5070352143482064in"
height="2.5246751968503935in"}

地震波传播的光线追踪渲染

### 直接体渲染 {#直接体渲染 .标题3}

直接渲染在空间具有变化颜色和透明度的体，在科学可视化技术方面是常用且计算量集中的技术。

a supernova simulation dataset, consisting of a 432^3^ volume of voxels
and rendered to a 1,024×1,024 window.

![](./media/image5.emf){width="3.011589020122485in"
height="3.180184820647419in"}

### 等值面 {#等值面 .标题3}

isosurface algorithm is adapted from PISTON. The new implementation
integrates the algorithm with VTK-m's data model and worklet execution
mechanism.

### 表面简化 {#表面简化 .标题3}

### 与HPC应用程序的整合 {#与hpc应用程序的整合 .标题3}

the supercomputer running the application using an in situ visualization
paradigm

粒子模型

D. Pugmire et al., [Towards Scalable Visualization Plugins for Data
Staging Workflows]{.mark}, Proc. SC14 Workshop Big Data Analytics:
Challenges and Opportunities (BDAC-14), 2014.

## 总结

过去20年发展了大量在HPC系统上应用的科学可视化工具，但传统方法不能很好地应用于[大规模线程]{.mark}的环境。VTK-m填补了空白。

但是，VTK-m并不是取代VTK或其他现有的可视化工具，如ParaView和VisIT。VTK-m已[与这些软件整合]{.mark}来提高其计算效率，应用于[多线程开发]{.mark}的环境。

# 学习资源

• A high-level overview is given in the IEEE Vis talk \"[[VTK-m:
Accelerating the Visualization Toolkit for Massively Threaded
Architectures]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/images/2/29/VTKmVis2016.pptx).\"

• The [[VTK-m Users
Guide]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/images/c/c8/VTKmUsersGuide.pdf)
provides extensive documentation. It is broken into multiple parts for
learning and references at multiple different levels.

-   \"Part 1: Getting Started\" provides the introductory instruction
    for building VTK-m and using its high-level features.

-   \"Part 2: Using VTK-m\" covers the core fundamental components of
    VTK-m including data model, worklets, and filters.

-   \"Part 3: Developing with VTK-m\" covers how to develop new worklets
    and filters.

-   \"Part 4: Advanced Development\" covers topics such as new worklet
    types and custom device adapters.

 A practical [[VTK-m
Tutorial]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/index.php/Tutorial) based in
what users want to accomplish with VTK-m:

-   Building VTK-m and using existing VTK-m data structures and filters.

-   Algorithm development with VTK-m.

-   Writing new VTK-m filters.

 Community discussion takes place on the [[VTK-m users email
list]{.underline}](http://vtk.org/mailman/listinfo/vtkm).

Doxygen-generated nightly reference documentation is available
[[online]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/documentation/).

# 依赖库

VTK-m Requires:

-   C++11 Compiler. VTK-m has been confirmed to work with the following

    -   GCC 5.4+

    -   Clang 5.0+

    -   XCode 5.0+

    -   MSVC 2015+

    -   Intel 17.0.4+

-   [[CMake]{.underline}](http://www.cmake.org/download/)

    -   CMake 3.12+

    -   CMake 3.13+ (for CUDA support)

Optional dependencies are:

-   CUDA Device Adapter

    -   [[Cuda Toolkit 9.2, \>=
        10.2]{.underline}](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit)

    -   Note CUDA \>= 10.2 is required on Windows

-   TBB Device Adapter

    -   [[TBB]{.underline}](https://www.threadingbuildingblocks.org/)

-   OpenMP Device Adapter

    -   Requires a compiler that supports OpenMP \>= 4.0.

-   OpenGL Rendering

    -   The rendering module contains multiple rendering implementations
        including standalone rendering code. The rendering module also
        includes (optionally built) OpenGL rendering classes.

    -   The OpenGL rendering classes require that you have a extension
        binding library and one rendering library. A windowing library
        is not needed except for some optional tests.

-   Extension Binding

    -   [[GLEW]{.underline}](http://glew.sourceforge.net/)

-   On Screen Rendering

    -   OpenGL Driver

    -   Mesa Driver

-   On Screen Rendering Tests

    -   [[GLFW]{.underline}](http://www.glfw.org/)

    -   [[GLUT]{.underline}](http://freeglut.sourceforge.net/)

-   [Headless Rendering]{.mark}

    -   [[OS Mesa]{.underline}](https://www.mesa3d.org/osmesa.html)

    -   EGL Driver

VTK-m has been tested on the following configurations:

-   On Linux

    -   GCC 5.4.0, 5.4, 6.5, 7.4, 8.2, 9.2; Clang 5, 8; Intel 17.0.4;
        19.0.0

    -   CMake 3.12, 3.13, 3.16, 3.17

    -   CUDA 9.2, 10.2, 11.0, 11.1

    -   TBB 4.4 U2, 2017 U7

-   On Windows

    -   Visual Studio 2015, 2017

    -   CMake 3.12, 3.17

    -   CUDA 10.2

    -   TBB 2017 U3, 2018 U2

-   On MacOS

    -   AppleClang 9.1

    -   CMake 3.12

    -   TBB 2018

# 编译VTK-m

VTK-m supports all majors platforms (Windows, Linux, OSX), and uses
CMake to generate all the build rules for the project. The VTK-m source
code is available from the [[VTK-m download
page]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/index.php/VTK-m_Releases) or by
directly cloning the [[VTK-m git
repository]{.underline}](https://gitlab.kitware.com/vtk/vtk-m/).

The basic procedure for building VTK-m is to unpack the source, create a
build directory, run CMake in that build directory (pointing to the
source) and then build. Here are some example linux commands for the
process (individual commands may vary).

\$ tar xvzf \~/Downloads/vtk-m-v1.4.0.tar.gz

\$ mkdir vtkm-build

\$ cd vtkm-build

[\$ cmake-gui ../vtk-m-v1.4.0]{.mark}

\$ cmake \--build -j . \# Runs make (or other build program)

A more detailed description of building VTK-m is available in the
[[VTK-m Users
Guide]{.underline}](http://m.vtk.org/images/c/c8/VTKmUsersGuide.pdf).

常用的配置参数有：

![](./media/image6.emf){width="5.239226815398076in"
height="4.366392169728784in"}

如果只是使用vtk-m，可以关闭编译tests, examples,
benchmarks的开关，缩短编译时间。

## 连接到vtk-m

使用CMake的find_package函数：

[例子：Loading VTK-m configuration from an external CMake
project]{.mark}

find_package (VTKm REQUIRED)

设置CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH为vtk-m的安装路径；或设置VTKm_DIR为包含头文件和库文件的路径。

使用target_link_libraries命令，连接到vtk-m库：

[例子：Linking VTK-m code into an external program]{.mark}

find_package (VTKm REQUIRED)

add_executable (myprog myprog.cxx)

target_link_libraries (myprog vtkm_filter)

提供若干个库目标，但大多数项目需要连接到一个或多个如下API：

**vtkm_cont** Contains the base objects used to control VTK-m. This
library must always be linked in.

**vtkm_filter** Contains VTK-m's pre-built filters including but not
limited to CellAverage, CleanGrid, Contour, ExternalFaces, and
PointAverage. Applications that are looking to use VTK-m filters will
need to link to this library.

**vtkm_io** Contains VTK-m's facilities for interacting with files. For
example, reading and writing png,

NetBPM, and VTK files.

**vtkm_rendering** Contains VTK-m's rendering components. This library
is only available if VTKm ENABLE RENDERING is set to true.

**vtkm_source** Contains VTK-m's pre-built dataset generators including
but not limited to Wavelet, Tangle, and Oscillator. Most applications
will not need to link to this library.

当完成find_package函数后，定义的所有CMake变量：

![](./media/image7.emf){width="5.459948600174978in"
height="2.020702099737533in"}

以上变量可用来查询是否支持合适的部件（在使用之前）。

[例子：Using an optional component of VTK-m]{.mark}

![](./media/image8.emf){width="4.385416666666667in"
height="1.0475863954505686in"}

# 示例

The VTK-m source distribution includes a number of examples. The goal of
the VTK-m examples is to illustrate specific VTK-m concepts in a
consistent and simple format. However, these examples only cover a small
part of the capabilities of VTK-m.

Below is a simple example of using VTK-m to load a VTK image file, run
the Marching Cubes algorithm on it, and render the results to an image:

#include \<vtkm/Bounds.h\>

#include \<vtkm/Range.h\>

#include \<vtkm/cont/ColorTable.h\>

#include \<vtkm/filter/Contour.h\>

#include \<vtkm/io/VTKDataSetReader.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/Actor.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/Camera.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/CanvasRayTracer.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/Color.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/MapperRayTracer.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/Scene.h\>

#include \<vtkm/rendering/View3D.h\>

vtkm::io::VTKDataSetReader reader(\"path/to/vtk_image_file.vtk\");

vtkm::cont::DataSet inputData = reader.ReadDataSet();

std::string fieldName = \"scalars\";

vtkm::Range range;

inputData.GetPointField(fieldName).GetRange(&range);

vtkm::Float64 isovalue = range.Center();

// Create an isosurface filter

vtkm::filter::Contour filter;

filter.SetIsoValue(0, isovalue);

filter.SetActiveField(fieldName);

vtkm::cont::DataSet outputData = filter.Execute(inputData);

// compute the bounds and extends of the input data

vtkm::Bounds coordsBounds = inputData.GetCoordinateSystem().GetBounds();

// setup a camera and point it to towards the center of the input data

vtkm::rendering::Camera camera;

camera.ResetToBounds(coordsBounds);

vtkm::cont::ColorTable colorTable(\"inferno\");

// Create a mapper, canvas and view that will be used to render the
scene

vtkm::rendering::Scene scene;

vtkm::rendering::MapperRayTracer mapper;

vtkm::rendering::CanvasRayTracer canvas(512, 512);

vtkm::rendering::Color bg(0.2f, 0.2f, 0.2f, 1.0f);

// Render an image of the output isosurface

scene.AddActor(vtkm::rendering::Actor(outputData.GetCellSet(),

outputData.GetCoordinateSystem(),

outputData.GetField(fieldName),

colorTable));

vtkm::rendering::View3D view(scene, mapper, canvas, camera, bg);

view.Paint();

view.SaveAs(\"demo_output.png\");

A minimal CMakeLists.txt such as the following one can be used to build
this example.

project(example)

set(VTKm_DIR \"/somepath/lib/cmake/vtkm-XYZ\")

find_package(VTKm REQUIRED)

add_executable(example example.cxx)

target_link_libraries(example vtkm_cont vtkm_rendering)

# VTK-m论文发表

Moreland, K., Sewell, C., Usher, W., Lo, L.-T., Meredith, J., Pugmire,
D., Kress, J., Schroots, H., Ma, K.-L., Childs, H., Larsen, M., Chen,
C.-M., Maynard, R., & Geveci, B. (2016). VTK-m: Accelerating the
Visualization Toolkit for Massively Threaded Architectures. *IEEE
Computer Graphics and Applications*, *36*(3), 48--58.

Moreland, K., Larsen, M., Childs, H. (2015). Visualization for Exascale:
Portable Performance is Critical. *Supercomputing Frontiers and
Innovations*, *2*(3).

Schroots, H. A., Ma, K.-L. (2015). Volume rendering with data parallel
visualization frameworks for emerging high performance computing
architectures. *SIGGRAPH Asia Visualization in High Performance
Computing*, 3:1--3:4

Maynard, R., Moreland, K., Ayachit, U., Geveci, B., Ma, K.-L. (2013).
Optimizing Threshold for Extreme Scale Analysis. *Visualization and Data
Analysis 2013, Proceedings of SPIE-IS&T Electronic Imaging*.

(Note: work initially performed in predecessor framework to VTK-m, and
was subsequently ported to VTK-m.)
